<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->

<chapter id="bookmarks">
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Pamela.Roberts;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo>3.1</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Using Bookmarks</title>

<para>Although you can use &konqueror;'s bookmarks to record the locations of
your own files and directories, they are most useful when you are surfing the
Web, letting you build up a list of useful sites.</para>

<para>To open the <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> drop-down list you may either
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click on the Menubar
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> item or use the <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo> shortcut. Once
the list is visible, you can navigate through it with the arrow keys or with
your mouse, then press <keycap>Enter</keycap> or
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click to visit the selected location.</para>

<para>To add a new item to the list use <menuchoice><guimenu>Bookmarks
</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Add Bookmark</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo> or
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on a clear space in the web page or 
directory view and select <guimenuitem>Add To Bookmarks</guimenuitem> from 
the pop up menu.</para>

<para>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> list can contain sub folders containing 
other bookmarks, you can create these with <menuchoice><guimenu>Bookmarks 
</guimenu><guimenuitem>New Bookmark Folder...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> . 
To add a bookmark into a sub folder rather than into the main Bookmark list, 
select the folder from within the <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> list and use 
the <guimenuitem>Add Bookmark</guimenuitem> item in that folder.</para>

<para>The items that appear in your Bookmark Toolbar are held in a sub folder, 
usually called <quote>Toolbar</quote> although this can be changed 
with the <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel>.</para>

<para>You can also access your bookmarks from the <link linkend="sidebar">
<guilabel>Navigation Panel</guilabel></link>.</para>

<sect1 id="orgbmark">
<title>The Bookmark Editor</title>

<para>The <menuchoice><guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Edit
Bookmarks</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> option opens the <guilabel>Bookmark
Editor</guilabel>.</para>
<para>This shows a tree view of your bookmarks and bookmark sub folders. 
As is usual for tree views in &kde; sub folders are shown with a small square 
at the left of the folder name; if the square contains a <keycap>+</keycap> 
sign <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking on it will expand the view to 
show the contents of that sub folder and the <keycap>+</keycap> sign will 
change to <keycap>-</keycap>, <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking on the 
<keycap>-</keycap> sign will collapse the sub folder view.</para>

<para>To select an item in the list you can <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> 
click on it, or you can navigate through the list by using the <keysym>
Up arrow</keysym> and <keysym>Down arrow</keysym> keys to move around, 
<keysym>Right arrow</keysym> to expand a sub folder and <keysym>
Left arrow</keysym> to collapse it.</para>

<para>You can move an item to a different place in the list by using the 
normal Drag and Drop or <guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>
Paste</guimenuitem> methods. The order in which the items appear in 
the <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel> is the order they will appear in the 
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> drop down list. The <menuchoice><guimenu>Insert
</guimenu><guimenuitem>Insert Separator</guimenuitem></menuchoice> option can 
be used to insert separating lines into the list wherever you wish.</para>

<para>A new sub folder can be created at the selected point in the list by 
using the <guimenuitem>Create New Folder...</guimenuitem> option in the 
<guimenu>Insert</guimenu> menu or from the drop down menu you get when you 
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on an item in the main part of the 
window, or with <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</para>

<para>To change the name of a bookmark or folder select it then press 
<keycap>F2</keycap> or choose the <guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem> item from 
the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu or the pop up menu that appears when you 
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the item. Similarly, you can edit 
the &URL; by pressing <keycap>F3</keycap> or choosing the <guimenuitem>
Rename URL</guimenuitem> menu item.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel> lets you import bookmarks from 
a range of other browsers into &konqueror;'s bookmark list, putting them into 
 a new folder or replacing all current bookmarks. To do this select 
<guisubmenu>Import</guisubmenu> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu. The 
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guisubmenu>Export</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice> option can be used to export &konqueror;'s bookmarks to a 
&Netscape; or Mozilla browser.</para>

<para>If you often use the &Netscape; browser as well as &konqueror;, then 
rather than importing your &Netscape; bookmarks into &konqueror; it is 
better to select the <guimenuitem>Show Netscape Bookmarks in Konqueror 
Windows</guimenuitem> item in the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu. If you 
do this any updates to &Netscape;'s bookmarks are automatically seen by 
&konqueror;.</para>

<para>To select which bookmark sub folder is used to hold the Bookmark 
Toolbar items select the sub folder then choose <guimenuitem>Set as Toolbar 
Folder</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu.</para>

<para>If you are tidying up your bookmarks and have forgotten what a 
particular web page is, you can easily open it from within the <guilabel>
Bookmark Editor</guilabel> by <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking 
on the item and selecting <guimenuitem>Open in Konqueror</guimenuitem> from 
the pop up menu. If you just want to check that the &URL; is still valid 
select <guimenuitem>Check Status</guimenuitem> instead.</para>

<important><para>Don't forget to save your changes with <menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo> before you leave 
the <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel>.
</para></important>
</sect1> 


</chapter>
