<chapter id="introduction">
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Pamela.Roberts;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-10-20</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Overview</title>

<para><emphasis>&konqueror;</emphasis> is an advanced  
<link linkend="filemanager">file manager</link> for the 
K Desktop Environment, providing file management functions ranging from simple 
cut/copy and paste operations to advanced local and remote network file 
browsing. Folder contents can be displayed in a variety of text and icon 
<link linkend="viewmode">view modes</link>, which can include thumbnail 
preview images of file contents. File and folder properties can easily be 
examined and changed and applications launched with a simple click of the 
&LMB;.</para>

<para><emphasis>&konqueror;</emphasis> is an <acronym>HTML</acronym> 4.01
compliant <link linkend="browser">web browser</link> with built in support for
JavaScript (ECMA-262), <acronym>CSS</acronym> (Cascading Style Sheets) and
bidirectional scripts (such as Arabic and Hebrew). It provides support for the secure
running of &Java; applets, &Netscape; plugins for viewing &Flash;, &RealAudio; and &RealVideo; and <acronym>SSL</acronym> for secure
communications. Advanced features include automatic &URL; and form completion,
the ability to import bookmarks from other browsers and tabbed browsing.
</para>

<para><emphasis>&konqueror;</emphasis> is also an excellent full featured 
<link linkend="ftp">FTP</link> client.</para>

<para><emphasis>&konqueror;</emphasis> is a universal viewing application, 
capable of displaying images and documents without having to launch another 
application. It does this by embedding components (&kde; Parts) provided by 
other applications; from &kview; for image viewing, &kdvi; for 
<acronym>DVI</acronym> viewing, &kghostview; for &PostScript; documents and 
from the various &koffice; applications for their document types.
</para>

<para><emphasis>&konqueror;</emphasis> is a fully customizable application 
which anyone can <link linkend="config">configure</link> to suit their own 
needs, from changing the overall style and the sizes of text and icons to 
selecting which items appear in the Menubar, changing the number and 
positions of the toolbars and even defining new shortcut key combinations. 
Different configuration <link linkend="save-settings">profiles</link> can be 
saved for easy recall as needed.
</para>

</chapter>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
End:
-->
