<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->

<chapter id="plugins">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Pamela.Roberts;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo>3.1</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>


<title>Plugins</title>

<sect1 id="netscape-plugin">
<title>&Netscape; Plugins</title>

<para>Currently, &konqueror; supports &Netscape; 4.x plugins.</para>

<para>Selecting <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>
Configure Konqueror...</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Plugins</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> will give you a dialog box with two tabbed pages;
<guilabel>Scan</guilabel> and <guilabel>Plugins</guilabel>.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Scan</guilabel> page controls how &kde; scans for new
&Netscape; plugins, either manually by pressing the <guibutton>Scan for New
Plugins</guibutton> button or automatically each time &kde; starts up.</para>
	
<para>The scan is done by looking through the directories listed in the
<guilabel>Scan Directories</guilabel> list for <literal
role="extension">.so</literal> files containing plugin code. It examines every
such file to find out which <acronym>MIME</acronym> types the plugin
supports. It then creates <acronym>MIME</acronym> type definitions for &kde; in
the user's <filename class="directory"> ~/.kde/share/mimelnk</filename>
directory to make other applications aware of them.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Plugins</guilabel> page shows you the &Netscape; plugins
that &kde; has found, and for each plugin it lists the <acronym>MIME</acronym>
types and the filename suffixes it uses to recognize them.</para>

<para>The dialog box also contains a checkbox <guilabel>
Enable plugins globally</guilabel> which you can use to enable or disable 
plugins that can be contained in <acronym>HTML</acronym> pages (these can 
be considered a security risk).</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="konq-plugin">
<title>&konqueror; Plugins</title>

<para>The package kdeaddons contains several useful plugins that interact with
&konqueror; in various ways. These are explained briefly below, more detailed 
information may be obtained by looking through the <guimenuitem>Konqueror 
Plugins</guimenuitem> section in the &kde; Help Center.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Web Page Translation</term>
<listitem><para>This uses AltaVista's BabelFish site to translate the current
<acronym>HTML</acronym> page to whatever language you want (within reason). It
can be launched with <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Translate
Web Page</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Directory View Filter</term>
<listitem><para>This is controlled by
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>View
Filter</guisubmenu></menuchoice> and allows you to choose which types of item
are displayed in a directory.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>DOM Tree Viewer</term>
<listitem><para>Selecting <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Show
DOM Tree</guisubmenu></menuchoice> opens a new window which displays the
document object model (DOM) of the current <acronym>HTML</acronym>
page.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>HTML Validator</term>
<listitem><para>This is started with
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Validate Web
Page</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Validate HTML</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. It
uses the W3C HTML validator to validate the current page, very useful when
creating web pages.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>CSS Validator</term>
<listitem><para>Started with
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Validate Web
Page</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Validate CSS</guimenuitem></menuchoice>, it uses
the W3C CSS validator to validate the current page's Cascading Style
Sheets.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>HTML Settings</term>
<listitem><para>Select <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>HTML
Settings</guisubmenu></menuchoice> to enable or disable a number of HTML
settings without going through the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> dialog.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Image Gallery</term>
<listitem><para>In File Manager mode, you can select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Create Image
Gallery</guisubmenu></menuchoice> to create an HTML page with
thumbnails of all the images in the current directory. By default the HTML page
is called <filename>images.html</filename> and the thumbnails are put into a
new <filename>thumbs</filename> directory.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>User Agent Changer</term>
<listitem><para>Select <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Change
Browser Identification</guisubmenu></menuchoice> to get a menu that allows
you to change the User Agent string without going through the <guimenu>Settings
</guimenu> dialog procedure.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Archive Web Page</term>
<listitem><para>Invoked with <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>
Archive Web Page</guisubmenu></menuchoice>, this tool creates an archive 
(<literal role="extension">.war</literal> ) file containing the web page being 
viewed including the images. <mousebutton>Left</mousebutton> click on the 
archive file name to view the saved page.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Navigation Panel Media Player</term>
<listitem><para>This is a simple media player, embedded as a tab page in the
Navigation Panel. You can drag songs or videos onto this page to play them.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>



</chapter>
