<chapter id="save-settings">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Pamela.Roberts;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-11-06</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Saving Settings &amp; Profiles</title>
<sect1 id="save-settings-general">
<title>General Settings</title>
<para>When you close down &konqueror; your current <guimenu>View</guimenu> 
menu settings (such as the <guimenuitem>View Mode</guimenuitem>, 
<guimenuitem>Use index.html</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Show Hidden Files
</guimenuitem> items) are automatically saved as the default options to be 
used next time &konqueror; is started.</para>

<para>But you can also specify different <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu settings
for an individual folder. To do this check the <guimenuitem>View Properties
Saved in Folder</guimenuitem> box in the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu,
change the <guimenu>View</guimenu> settings to whatever you want then uncheck
the
<guimenuitem>View Properties saved in Folder</guimenuitem> box. Doing this
creates a <filename>.directory</filename> file in that folder to hold the
folder <guimenu>View</guimenu> settings. Use the <menuchoice><guimenu>
Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Remove Folder Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> option to remove the folder specific
settings (or just delete the <filename>.directory</filename> file).</para>
<note><para>One nice use of this feature is if you have a folder full of
pictures. You can set that particular folder to display thumbnails of the
pictures (by choosing <guimenuitem>Icon View</guimenuitem> and <menuchoice>
<guisubmenu>Preview</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Show Previews</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> from the <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu) when you open it, while 
not displaying images as thumbnails in other folders.</para></note>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="save-settings-view-profiles">
<title>View Profiles</title>
<para>&konqueror; can save a whole set of options as a <quote>View
Profile</quote>. Some view profiles are part of the standard &konqueror;
installation, such as <property>Web Browsing</property> and <property>File
Management</property>, but you can add your own, too.</para>

<para>To modify a view profile (say, the <property>Web Browsing</property>
profile), load the profile with
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>Load View
Profile</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Web Browsing</guimenuitem> </menuchoice>, and
change the &konqueror; settings to whatever you want. Now select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save View Profile "Web
Browsing"...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. In the dialog which appears, you can
change the name of the profile, which will create a new profile with that name,
or you can leave the name as it is to modify the current profile. If you select
<guilabel>Save URLs in profile</guilabel>, the current &URL; will be loaded
when you load that view profile. This functions in a similar way to the
<quote>Home Page</quote> in many web browsers. If you want &konqueror; to start
up with an empty window enter <userinput>about:blank</userinput> into the
location bar before saving the profile.</para>

<note><para>You can create a desktop icon to start &konqueror; with your new
profile. First create a desktop icon by dragging the &konqueror; icon from the
<guimenu>K</guimenu> menu onto the desktop and selecting <guimenuitem>Copy
Here</guimenuitem>.  Then <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the new
icon, select
<guimenuitem>Properties...</guimenuitem> and change <guilabel>Program
Name</guilabel> in the <guilabel>Execute</guilabel> tab page to
<userinput><command>kfmclient</command> <option>openProfile
<replaceable>MyNewProfile</replaceable></option></userinput>,
<replaceable>MyNewProfile</replaceable> being what you called the new
profile. Then in the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab page change the name to
something like <filename>MyNewProfile</filename> and pick a more
suitable icon.</para></note>

</sect1>
</chapter>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
End:
-->
